as snow in summer and rain in harvest so
honor is not fitting for a fool like a
flitting sparrow like a flying swallow
so a curse without cause shall not
alight a whip for the horse a bridle for
the donkey and a rod for the fools back
do not answer a fool according to his
folly lest you also be like him answer a
fool according to his folly lest he be
wise in his own eyes he who sends a
message by the hand of a fool cuts off
his own feet and drinks violence like
the legs of the lame that hang limp is a
proverb in the mouth of fools like one
who binds a stone in a sling is he who
gives honor
like a form that goes into the hand of a
drunken is a proverb in the mouth of
fools the Great God who formed
everything gives the fool his higher and
the transgressor his wages as a dog
returns to his own vomit so a fool
repeats his folly do you see a man wise
in his own eyes there is more hope for a
fool than for him the lazy man says
there is a lion in the road a fierce
lion is in the streets as a door turns
on its hinges so does the lazy man on
his bed the lazy man buries his hand in
the bowl it worries him to bring it back
to his mouth the lazy man is wiser in
his own eyes than seven men who can
answer sensibly he who passes by and
medals in a quarrel not his own is like
one who takes a dog by the ears like a
mad man who throws firebrands arrows and
death is the man who deceives his
neighbour and says I was only joking
where there is no wood the fire goes out
and where there is no tail bearer strife
ceases
as charcoal is to burning coals and wood
to fire so is a contentious man to
Kindle strife the words of a tail bearer
are like tasty trifles and they go down
into the inmost body fervent lips with a
wicked heart are like earthenware
covered with silver dross he who hates
disguises it with his lips and lays up
to seat within himself when he speaks
kindly do not believe him for there are
seven abominations in his heart though
his hatred is covered by deceit his
wickedness will be revealed before the
assembly whoever digs a pit will fall
into it and he who rolls a stone will
have it rolled back on him a lying
tongue hates those who are crushed by it
and a flattering mouth works ruin
you